- [Instructor] So I hope that this step by step process
got you excited about the possibility of operators.
Maybe even as excited as I am.
In fact, if you ask the people that work with me
on a day to day basis, they hear the word,
"We can create an operator for that" all too often.
Let's take a look at what we've learned
and where we could go from there,
just in case you're not quite as excited as I am
about building Kubernetes operators.
First, let's start out with the recap.
So we talked about and learned about
the operator pattern for Kubernetes.
We also learned about some common terms
and definitions when we're talking about operators,
as well as Kubernetes as a whole.
We then built an operator from the ground up
based on a very specific use case.
Throughout our process,
we've been testing the operator,
but we've been testing it manually,
and we've deployed the operator
using the Kubebuilder framework.
Of course, we talked a little bit about Helm,
but we'll talk more about that next.
So let's talk about how you could take this operator
and extend it to learn even more.
Of course, you can do other resources.
Think about attaching a database or an QSQ,
or some other thing that you would use
from Cloud Infrastructure to your Kubernetes cluster.
You could also extend the functionality for our buckets.
You could provide more bells and whistles in the CR,
or you could offer more ways
of flexibility across different name spaces,
in case you want to share that across multiple name spaces.
You also could talk about building restricted IAM access.
So think about that.
A CR requests a bucket,
you build an IAM user specifically for that bucket,
you then build the bucket
and set up the permissions appropriately,
and then you provide a secret
with those IAM credentials alongside the config map
that the applications can use.
That way, each name space gets its own secure bucket
that only they have access to.
That would be a really powerful way
to extend this operator sort of
to the next level.
And you could build a home chart.
So we built a Docker file using the make,
and push that Docker image out to a repository,
and then you could build a Helm Chart
that deploys that along with all of those manifests,
and you can customize those manifests however you want.
That's really how you push a production operator,
is through something like Helm
or providing the manifest themselves,
but ultimately pushing that up to Docker Hub
or some other container repository.
Ultimately, I would love you to get to the point
where you create your own operators
and maybe you will be as excited as I am,
where you tell your teammates,
"Hey, we can build an operator for that,"
but I would suggest that you go build one
on your own with Kubebuilder,
but I would also look at other operator frameworks.
They're all close enough with concepts
that I think you should be able to pick up any of them
just from what we've learned in this course.
And then you will pick and choose
which operator framework you want to use
for your everyday work.
And the most important thing here
is to find real world use cases that work for you.
If you're working with Kubernetes today,
you probably have 20 things you can think of
right now that you would love to have an operator for.
Pick one and go build one
and show it to your boss and your team
and see what they think.
Now I understand that learning
is a very valuable skill that we all have,
and I'm a perpetual student,
And I actually take pride in the concept
of always learning and never stop learning.
But I also understand that your time is important,
and I want to thank you
for you spending your time with me
throughout this course.
It really means the world to me
when I see all kinds of people talking about
what they've learned through my courses.
And I really appreciate that,
Not only because of the time commitment,
because then it validates that
we're all in this together,
regardless of tenure in this industry,
and I'm very active on Twitter,
GitHub, Stack Overflow,
LinkedIn Learning Questions
is associated with this course,
and I provided my handle there
for Twitter, GitHub, and Stack Overflow.
But if you've got questions about this course
or any of my courses,
or you want to talk about tech,
feel free to reach out to me
through these communication media.
My commitment to you doesn't end
when this course ends, so please engage with me.
Tell me what you liked,
tell me what you didn't,
tell me what you would improve,
but most importantly,
tell me what you're doing
with what you've learned through this course.